---
layout: post

title: Help With Jekyll
subtitle: Technical Blog Post 8
cover_image: blog-cover.jpg

excerpt : "Some resources and tips for using the blogging platform Jekyll."



author:
  name: Hilary Barr
  twitter: hilaryrose1218
  bio: Software Engineering Student
  image: ks.png
---


Jekyll is a parsing engine bundled as a ruby gem that is used to build static websites from dynamic content like templates, Liquid code, and markdown. Jekyll makes it possible to add posts to a blog without having to keep adding each new post to the archives. Because Jekyll websites are static, they load quicker than sites that must constantly communicate with a server. Also, Jekyll-based websites are extremely secure.



#### Getting Started:
I recommend going through [The Ultimate Jekyll Tutorial](https://www.andrewmunsell.com/blog/ultimate-jekyll-tutorial/ "The Ultimate Jekyll Tutorial") to gain an understanding of how Jekyll works. My classmate, Tony Leung, also wrote a great post about this [here](http://tonykleung.info/technical/2014/06/14/jekyll/ "here").


 


 
#### Some Challenges You May Face

The following resources and suggestions may help with some common challenges you might face.


<strong> If you need help hosting project pages on Github:</strong> visit
It is easy to host a page as username.github.io. But what if you want to save a project page in another repo? Visit[this resource](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-project-pages-manually/ "this resource") for help setting up project pages.


<strong> If gitgnore isn’t hiding the _site folder: </strong> visit [this resource.](http://blog.jonathanchannon.com/2012/11/18/gitignore-not-working-fixed/ "visit here") 

<strong>If your Jekyll project won’t upload properly</strong>: the problem may be that you are using plugins in your project. Github doesn’t allow for plugins to be uploaded primarily due to security reasons. You can either upload your project on another server (i.e. AmazonS3) or remove the plugins. In my case, I tried to use a single Liquify command and a plugin to access all stylesheets. Manually linking to each stylesheet in the base html page resolved the problem.

<strong>If your blog index isn’t working unless it is on the index.html page </strong>: if you want your blog index to be on a page other than index.html (i.e. username.github.io/blog/) create a folder called blog in your root directory and put a file called index.html inside it. Note that if you create a file called name.html inside your root directory, the name of the file will be converted to a folder name inside the _site folder and the name.html will appear inside the blog folder as index.html. Move your _post folder inside your blog folder. Then, change the paginate path in your configuration.yaml folder to something like blog/page:num. This may not completely solve the issue of the blog pagination not appearing. For more help, consult [this resource.](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/issues/267/ "this resource.") 


If anyone is having difficulty with Jekyll, feel free to <a href="https://hilarybarr.github.io/contact/index.html">contact me </a> and I will try my best to help!