---
layout: post

title: Empathy and Technology
subtitle: Cultural Blog Post 5
cover_image: blog-cover.jpg

excerpt : "Staying connected in a technological world."



author:
  name: Hilary Barr
  twitter: hilaryrose1218
  gplus: 100687498195339762535 
  bio: Software Engineering Student
  image: ks.png
---

How many times have you tried to pour your heart out to someone only to find that they would not stop playing with their iPhone? While technology has in many ways enhanced human relationships, it has also made it more challenging to maintain empathy.

In fact, a 2011 study at the University of Michigan suggests that technology has contributed to decreased empathy. The research found that today's college students score 40% lower on tests of empathy than students in past decades. While various factors may play a role, it is hypothesized that the prevalence of social media contributes to this problem. Even though it may be easier to meet people online, social media may distract us from maintaining relationships offline. As one of the psychologists who conducted the study explains, “The ease of having ‘friends’ online might make people more likely to just tune out when they don’t feel like responding to others’ problems, a behavior that could carry over offline." 

In addition, a study by Anderson et al in 2010 demonstrated a causal link between exposure to violent videogames and desensitization.

It is important to note that it is not technology in of itself that has resulted in this decrease in empathy. It is the manner and extent to which technology is engaged. A study by Greitemeyer and Osswald in 2010 found that playing prosocial video games actually increases prosocial cognitions and behavior as well as decreases aggressive cognitions. Also, when social media is used in moderation and at the appropriate times, it can make it easier to stay in touch with loved ones. The key to addressing the problem of technology resulting in decreased empathy is thus to build videogames with a more prosocial aim and for people to be more aware of how dependent they are on technology. So the next time you feel like playing Candy Crush while you are having dinner with your family, ask how their days were instead.


